---
layout: post
title:  "Sass"
date:   2024-02-28 15:30:21 -0500
categories: shel
permalink: /:title
---

# Sass

* Back after a brief hiatus / existential crisis.
* Goal for today's session is to complete the [freeCodeCamp SASS course](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/front-end-development-libraries/sass/store-data-with-sass-variables) and refactor the CSS on my website to reinforce my learning.
* But first, I decided that it's time to be a big girl and actually stage changes to my website instead of working out of main and deploying everything to the production branch.

# big girls learn git

* Hahaha. I just made two new branches in my website repo. One is for doing the actual CSS refactoring (scss) and one is for staging (staging).

# but wait, there's more

* I had some leftover changes from playing with the mobile navigation menu that I didn't finish working out.
* Sounds like a use case for `git stash`.
* I got a very confusing error message "cannot apply binary patch to 'my/resource.png' without full index line" when trying to stash the mobile nav assets. Never figured out what that was about.
* Anyway, was trying to work around this error message and tried (admittedly, not my best idea) "Stash (Include Untracked)".
* That's when I ended up adding a bunch of PNG assets to the list of changes in my project which was not wanted.
* Okay, so obviously it's time to have a real gitignore file in my project.
* The trouble was when I tried to push the gitignore to my repo, I think because my personal access token to this repo had expired.
* Why, pray tell, not just generate a personal access token that never expires? Because I hate myself, and I want to remind myself that these authentication methods are not something I fully understand how it works, thus I make myself re-do it every 30 days. I know. I might be a bit of a masochist.
* I'm gonna work it out at a later date, I promise. Maybe I'll decide to love myself and not make myself suffer for emotional reasons that I don't fully understand and make no logical sense.
* But for now, I'm just gonna publish the staging branch to my git repo, so that I can finish setting up my staging URL in Vercel per the [documentation](https://vercel.com/guides/set-up-a-staging-environment-on-vercel).
* Also, re-based my scss branch with my main branch b/c I created the scss branch before publishing my .gitignore file.

# ok for real, back to the main act

* I have installed sass on my local dev environment prior to this writing, so I have no comments there.
* Right now I'm trying to work out how this is going to work, before I start refactoring anything. Sass is a CSS preprocessor which means that all of my `.scss` files will be compiled into a regular `.css` file at the end.
* I can use the `sass --watch` command in order to watch my scss directory and automatically track any changes and output them to an output file. 
* That should work for me in my local dev environment but what about in production on Vercel?
* I think it's going to involve tinkering with the *Build & Development Settings* under my General project settings in Vercel?
* Also all of my current css files are the wrong file extension.
* `for f in *.css; do mv -- "$f" "${f.css}.scss"; done` [Thank you Stack Overflow](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/19654/how-do-i-change-the-extension-of-multiple-files).
* `sass --watch app/sass:public/stylesheets` [Straight from the documentation](https://sass-lang.com/guide/).
* Now I think I can tryyyyyy to start refactoring?

# took a lunch break

* Coming back with a clear head. I'm not sure if this is a super valuable use of my time, might be better to just use Sass from scratch on my next project.
* Just b/c it's gonna be more of a headache, with very little payoff (website is gonna look the same) to refactor this, in order to learn something that's already relatively straightforward.
* So, glad I went through the thought exercise of doing it & ended up setting up a staging branch for my website so I got something out of the exercise.
* But would rather prioritize something that's actually gonna have a tangible impact my website's performance like moving all of my assets to a CDN. Closing the book here!